documentation/help/markdown/sdk/flash-builder.md, before:

---
title: Setting up the Feathers SDK in Adobe Flash Builder  
author: Josh Tynjala

---
# Setting up the Feathers SDK in Adobe Flash Builder

Let's get your [Flash Builder](http://www.adobe.com/products/flash-builder.html) development environment setup to use the Feathers SDK.

<aside class="info">These instructions apply to both Flash Builder 4.6 and Flash Builder 4.7.</aside>

## Create a new workspace for Feathers SDK projects

First, we should to create a new workspace in Flash Builder. We're going to make some changes to the workspace settings so that Flash Builder works a little more smoothly with the Feathers SDK. We don't want to do that in a workspace that contains any Flex projects.

1. Create a new workspace in Flash Builder by selecting **File** menu → **Switch workspace** → **Other...**.

2. Choose a directory for the new workspace.

Don't create a new project yet! We have a couple of things to tweak first.

## Import the file templates for the Feathers SDK

Next, we're going to import custom templates for new MXML files. The default templates provided by Flash Builder don't work with Feathers components, so these custom templates will provide the right settings.

1. Download the [Feathers SDK file templates for Flash Builder](javascript:alert("Not available yet.")).

2. Open the Flash Builder preferences on Mac OS X by going to the **Flash Builder** menu → **Preferences**. On Windows, select the **Window** menu → **Preferences...**.

3. Expand the **Flash Builder** node on the list to the left of the preferences window and select **File Templates**.

4. Click the **Import...** button and choose the file templates that were downloaded in step 1.

## Creating a new Feathers SDK project

1. In Flash Builder, select the **File** menu → **New** → **Flex Project**. A new window will open to customize the project's settings.

2. Enter your **Project name**. The default **Project location** is usually okay.

3. Click **Finish**.

Your project is ready. If you're unsure how to proceed, take a look at the [Getting Started with Feathers and MXML tutorial](getting-started-mxml.html).

Commit message:

Help: added instructions for importing the Feathers SDK into Flash Builder, and added a section that describes known issues.

documentation/help/markdown/sdk/flash-builder.md, after:

---
title: Setting up the Feathers SDK in Adobe Flash Builder  
author: Josh Tynjala

---
# Setting up the Feathers SDK in Adobe Flash Builder

Let's get your [Flash Builder](http://www.adobe.com/products/flash-builder.html) development environment setup to use the [Feathers SDK](http://feathersui.com/sdk/).

<aside class="info">These instructions apply to both Flash Builder 4.6 and Flash Builder 4.7.</aside>

## Create a new workspace for Feathers SDK projects

First, we should to create a new workspace in Flash Builder. We're going to make some changes to the workspace settings so that Flash Builder works a little more smoothly with the Feathers SDK. We don't want to do that in a workspace that contains any Flex projects.

1. Create a new workspace in Flash Builder by selecting **File** menu → **Switch workspace** → **Other...**.

2. Choose a directory for the new workspace.

3. Click **OK** to create the new workspace.

Don't create a new project yet! We have a couple of things to tweak first.

## Add the Feathers SDK to Flash Builder

1. Install the [Feathers SDK](http://feathersui.com/sdk/) somewhere on your computer.

2. Open the Flash Builder preferences on Mac OS X by going to the **Flash Builder** menu → **Preferences**. On Windows, select the **Window** menu → **Preferences...**.

3. Expand the **Flash Builder** node on the list to the left of the preferences window, and select **Installed Flex SDKs**.

4. Click the **Add...** button, and in the new window, choose the directory where you installed the Feathers SDK. Click **OK** when finished.

5. Click the checkbox next to the Feathers SDK in the **Name** column to make this SDK the default for the workspace.

6. Click **Finish**.

## Import the file templates for the Feathers SDK

Next, we're going to import custom templates for new MXML files. The default templates provided by Flash Builder don't work with Feathers components, so these custom templates will provide the right settings.

1. Download the [Feathers SDK file templates for Flash Builder](javascript:alert("Not available yet.")).

2. Open the Flash Builder preferences on Mac OS X by going to the **Flash Builder** menu → **Preferences**. On Windows, select the **Window** menu → **Preferences...**.

3. Expand the **Flash Builder** node on the list to the left of the preferences window, and select **File Templates**.

4. Click the **Import...** button and choose the file templates that were downloaded in step 1.

## Create a new Feathers SDK project

1. In Flash Builder, select the **File** menu → **New** → **Flex Project**. A new window will open to customize the project's settings.

2. Enter your **Project name**. The default **Project location** is usually okay.

3. Click **Finish**.

Your project is ready. If you're unsure how to proceed, take a look at the [Getting Started with Feathers and MXML tutorial](getting-started-mxml.html).

## Known Issues

* Flash Builder code completion will always automatically use the fully-qualified class name `starling.events.Event` in MXML `<fx:Script>` tags, even if `flash.events.Event` is not imported. Since there is no conflict, the `starling.events` package name may be manually removed, if desired.

* Unless the custom file templates are imported, creating a new project will not automatically define the Feathers MXML namespace in the new project's main application class. In this situation, the application class generated by Flash Builder must be edited manually to compile. Import the custom file templates to avoid this issue.

* When creating a new MXML component, no Feathers components will be listed when clicking the **Browse** button next to the **Based on** field that allows you to choose a superclass. Instead, you can manually type in the fully-qualified class name of the component. For example, to create an MXML component based on [`LayoutGroup`](../layout-group.html), you should type in `feathers.controls.LayoutGroup`.

* In the **Flex Theme** section of a project's properties, do not change the selected theme or attempt to import a Feathers theme SWC. This may result in Eclipse error messages when opening the project properties. A Feathers theme should be set in your MXML application class.
