documentation/help/markdown/date-time-spinner.md, before:

---
title: How to use the Feathers DateTimeSpinner component  
author: Josh Tynjala

---
# How to use the Feathers `DateTimeSpinner` component

The [`DateTimeSpinner`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html) component allows the selection of date and time values using a set of [`SpinnerList`](spinner-list.html) components. It support multiple editing modes to allow users to select only the date, only the time, or both.

<figure>
<img src="images/date-time-spinner.png" srcset="images/date-time-spinner@2x.png 2x" alt="Screenshot of Feathers a DateTimeSpinner component" />
<figcaption>A `DateTimeSpinner` component skinned with `MetalWorksMobileTheme`</figcaption>
</figure>

-   [The Basics](#the-basics)

-   [Skinning a `DateTimeSpinner`](#skinning-a-datetimespinner)

## The Basics

First, let's create a `DateTimeSpinner` control, set up its editing mode and its range of values, and add it to the display list.

``` code
var spinner:DateTimeSpinner = new DateTimeSpinner();
spinner.editingMode = DateTimeMode.DATE;
spinner.minimum = new Date(1970, 0, 1);
spinner.maximum = new Date(2050, 11, 31);
spinner.value = new Date(2015, 10, 31);
this.addChild( spinner );
```

The [`value`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#value) property indicates the currently selected date and time, while the [`minimum`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#minimum) and [`maximum`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#maximum) properties establish a range of possible values. You may omit the `minimum` and `maximum` properties, and reasonable defaults will be chosen automatically.

The [`editingMode`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#editingMode) property determines how the date and time are displayed.

* [`DateTimeMode.DATE`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeMode.html#DATE) displays only the date, without the time. The month and day are displayed in order based on the current locale.
* [`DateTimeMode.TIME`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeMode.html#TIME) displays only the time, without the date. The time is displayed in either 12-hour or 24-hour format based on the current locale.
* [`DateTimeMode.DATE_AND_TIME`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeMode.html#DATE_AND_TIME) displays both the date and the time. As with the previous mode, the current locale determines formatting.

Add a listener to the [`Event.CHANGE`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#event:change) event to know when the `value` property changes:

``` code
spinner.addEventListener( Event.CHANGE, spinner_changeHandler );
```

The listener might look something like this:

``` code
function spinner_changeHandler( event:Event ):void
{
    var spinner:DateTimeSpinner = DateTimeSpinner( event.currentTarget );
    trace( "spinner.value changed:", spinner.value );
}
```

## Skinning a `DateTimeSpinner`

The skins for a `DateTimeSpinner` control are divided into multiple [`SpinnerList`](spinner-list.html) components. For full details about which properties are available, see the [`DateTimeSpinner` API reference](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html). We'll look at a few of the most common properties below.

### Using a theme? Some tips for customizing the styles of an individual `DateTimeSpinner`

A [theme](themes.html) does not style a component until the component initializes. This is typically when the component is added to stage. If you try to pass skins or font styles to the component before the theme has been applied, they may be replaced by the theme! Let's learn how to avoid that.

As a best practice, when you want to customize an individual component, you should add a custom value to the component's [`styleNameList`](../api-reference/feathers/core/FeathersControl.html#styleNameList) and [extend the theme](extending-themes.html). However, it's also possible to use an [`AddOnFunctionStyleProvider`](../api-reference/feathers/skins/AddOnFunctionStyleProvider.html) outside of the theme, if you prefer. This class will call a function after the theme has applied its styles, so that you can make a few tweaks to the default styles.

In the following example, we customize the `scrollDuration` with an `AddOnFunctionStyleProvider`:

``` code
var dateSpinner:DateTimeSpinner = new DateTimeSpinner();
function setExtraDateTimeSpinnerStyles( dateSpinner:DateTimeSpinner ):void
{
	dateSpinner.scrollDuration = 1.0;
}
dateSpinner.styleProvider = new AddOnFunctionStyleProvider(
	dateSpinner.styleProvider, setExtraDateTimeSpinnerStyles );
```

Our changes only affect the `scrollDuration` property. The `DateTimeSpinner` will continue to use the theme's skins and styles.

### Skinning the `SpinnerList` sub-components

This section only explains how to access the `SpinnerList` sub-components. Please read [How to use the Feathers `SpinnerList` component](spinner-list.html) for full details about the skinning properties that are available on `SpinnerList` components.

#### With a Theme

If you're creating a [theme](themes.html), you can target the [`DateTimeSpinner.DEFAULT_CHILD_STYLE_NAME_LIST`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#DEFAULT_CHILD_STYLE_NAME_LIST) style name.

``` code
getStyleProviderForClass( SpinnerList )
    .setFunctionForStyleName( DateTimeSpinner.DEFAULT_CHILD_STYLE_NAME_LIST, setDateTimeSpinnerListStyles );
```

The styling function might look like this:

``` code
private function setDateTimeSpinnerListStyles( list:SpinnerList ):void
{
	var skin:Image = new Image( texture );
	skin.scale9Grid = new Rectangle( 2, 3, 1, 6 );
    list.backgroundSkin = skin;
}
```

You can override the default style name to use a different one in your theme, if you prefer:

``` code
spinner.customListStyleName = "custom-list";
```

You can set the function for the [`customListStyleName`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#customListStyleName) like this:

``` code
getStyleProviderForClass( SpinnerList )
    .setFunctionForStyleName( "custom-list", setDateTimeSpinnerCustomListStyles );
```

#### Without a Theme

If you are not using a theme, you can use [`listFactory`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#listFactory) to provide skins for the list sub-components:

``` code
spinner.listFactory = function():SpinnerList
{
    var list:SpinnerList = new SpinnerList();

    //skin the lists here, if you're not using a theme
	var skin:Image = new Image( texture );
	skin.scale9Grid = new Rectangle( 2, 3, 1, 6 );
    list.backgroundSkin = skin;

    return list;
}
```

## Related Links

-   [`feathers.controls.DateTimeSpinner` API Documentation](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html)

-   [How to use the Feathers `SpinnerList` component](spinner-list.html)

Commit message:

Help: some clarification about using AddOnFunctionStyleProvider with sub-components

documentation/help/markdown/date-time-spinner.md, after:

---
title: How to use the Feathers DateTimeSpinner component  
author: Josh Tynjala

---
# How to use the Feathers `DateTimeSpinner` component

The [`DateTimeSpinner`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html) component allows the selection of date and time values using a set of [`SpinnerList`](spinner-list.html) components. It support multiple editing modes to allow users to select only the date, only the time, or both.

<figure>
<img src="images/date-time-spinner.png" srcset="images/date-time-spinner@2x.png 2x" alt="Screenshot of Feathers a DateTimeSpinner component" />
<figcaption>A `DateTimeSpinner` component skinned with `MetalWorksMobileTheme`</figcaption>
</figure>

-   [The Basics](#the-basics)

-   [Skinning a `DateTimeSpinner`](#skinning-a-datetimespinner)

## The Basics

First, let's create a `DateTimeSpinner` control, set up its editing mode and its range of values, and add it to the display list.

``` code
var spinner:DateTimeSpinner = new DateTimeSpinner();
spinner.editingMode = DateTimeMode.DATE;
spinner.minimum = new Date(1970, 0, 1);
spinner.maximum = new Date(2050, 11, 31);
spinner.value = new Date(2015, 10, 31);
this.addChild( spinner );
```

The [`value`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#value) property indicates the currently selected date and time, while the [`minimum`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#minimum) and [`maximum`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#maximum) properties establish a range of possible values. You may omit the `minimum` and `maximum` properties, and reasonable defaults will be chosen automatically.

The [`editingMode`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#editingMode) property determines how the date and time are displayed.

* [`DateTimeMode.DATE`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeMode.html#DATE) displays only the date, without the time. The month and day are displayed in order based on the current locale.
* [`DateTimeMode.TIME`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeMode.html#TIME) displays only the time, without the date. The time is displayed in either 12-hour or 24-hour format based on the current locale.
* [`DateTimeMode.DATE_AND_TIME`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeMode.html#DATE_AND_TIME) displays both the date and the time. As with the previous mode, the current locale determines formatting.

Add a listener to the [`Event.CHANGE`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#event:change) event to know when the `value` property changes:

``` code
spinner.addEventListener( Event.CHANGE, spinner_changeHandler );
```

The listener might look something like this:

``` code
function spinner_changeHandler( event:Event ):void
{
    var spinner:DateTimeSpinner = DateTimeSpinner( event.currentTarget );
    trace( "spinner.value changed:", spinner.value );
}
```

## Skinning a `DateTimeSpinner`

The skins for a `DateTimeSpinner` control are divided into multiple [`SpinnerList`](spinner-list.html) components. For full details about which properties are available, see the [`DateTimeSpinner` API reference](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html). We'll look at a few of the most common properties below.

### Using a theme? Some tips for customizing the styles of an individual `DateTimeSpinner`

A [theme](themes.html) does not style a component until the component initializes. This is typically when the component is added to stage. If you try to pass skins or font styles to the component before the theme has been applied, they may be replaced by the theme! Let's learn how to avoid that.

As a best practice, when you want to customize an individual component, you should add a custom value to the component's [`styleNameList`](../api-reference/feathers/core/FeathersControl.html#styleNameList) and [extend the theme](extending-themes.html). However, it's also possible to use an [`AddOnFunctionStyleProvider`](../api-reference/feathers/skins/AddOnFunctionStyleProvider.html) outside of the theme, if you prefer. This class will call a function after the theme has applied its styles, so that you can make a few tweaks to the default styles.

In the following example, we customize the `scrollDuration` with an `AddOnFunctionStyleProvider`:

``` code
var dateSpinner:DateTimeSpinner = new DateTimeSpinner();
function setExtraDateTimeSpinnerStyles( dateSpinner:DateTimeSpinner ):void
{
	dateSpinner.scrollDuration = 1.0;
}
dateSpinner.styleProvider = new AddOnFunctionStyleProvider(
	dateSpinner.styleProvider, setExtraDateTimeSpinnerStyles );
```

Our changes only affect the `scrollDuration` property. The `DateTimeSpinner` will continue to use the theme's skins and styles.

<aside class="warn">If you want to customize the styles of the list sub-components outside of the theme, they require their own, separate `AddOnFunctionStyleProvider`. Create the `AddOnFunctionStyleProvider` inside the `listFactory`.</aside>

### Skinning the `SpinnerList` sub-components

This section only explains how to access the `SpinnerList` sub-components. Please read [How to use the Feathers `SpinnerList` component](spinner-list.html) for full details about the skinning properties that are available on `SpinnerList` components.

#### With a Theme

If you're creating a [theme](themes.html), you can target the [`DateTimeSpinner.DEFAULT_CHILD_STYLE_NAME_LIST`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#DEFAULT_CHILD_STYLE_NAME_LIST) style name.

``` code
getStyleProviderForClass( SpinnerList )
    .setFunctionForStyleName( DateTimeSpinner.DEFAULT_CHILD_STYLE_NAME_LIST, setDateTimeSpinnerListStyles );
```

The styling function might look like this:

``` code
private function setDateTimeSpinnerListStyles( list:SpinnerList ):void
{
	var skin:Image = new Image( texture );
	skin.scale9Grid = new Rectangle( 2, 3, 1, 6 );
    list.backgroundSkin = skin;
}
```

You can override the default style name to use a different one in your theme, if you prefer:

``` code
spinner.customListStyleName = "custom-list";
```

You can set the function for the [`customListStyleName`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#customListStyleName) like this:

``` code
getStyleProviderForClass( SpinnerList )
    .setFunctionForStyleName( "custom-list", setDateTimeSpinnerCustomListStyles );
```

#### Without a Theme

If you are not using a theme, you can use [`listFactory`](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html#listFactory) to provide skins for the list sub-components:

``` code
spinner.listFactory = function():SpinnerList
{
    var list:SpinnerList = new SpinnerList();

    //skin the lists here, if you're not using a theme
	var skin:Image = new Image( texture );
	skin.scale9Grid = new Rectangle( 2, 3, 1, 6 );
    list.backgroundSkin = skin;

    return list;
}
```

## Related Links

-   [`feathers.controls.DateTimeSpinner` API Documentation](../api-reference/feathers/controls/DateTimeSpinner.html)

-   [How to use the Feathers `SpinnerList` component](spinner-list.html)
